Good morning, Jacob. Happy Monday. Here is your week in
review for the week of April thirteen through nineteen, two
thousand and twenty-six. Welcome to the weekly edition — the
Sunday newspaper to your daily briefing's Twitter feed. We slow
down. We zoom out. We find the patterns you might
have missed when each day was happening to you at
full speed. Grab your coffee. Let's see what kind of
week that actually was. If you had to write a
one-sentence headline for the week of April thirteenth, it would
be this: the week everything accelerated all at once. You
started Monday with the Anthropic application freshly submitted — confirmation
email at one thirteen A-M — and a U-S naval
blockade of Iranian ports beginning at ten A-M Eastern. That
is a lot of world for one Monday. By Friday,
the company you had just applied to was sitting down
with the White House chief of staff. By Saturday, Iran
had reinstated its closure of the Strait of Hormuz. And
somewhere in the middle of all of this, you went
to a book festival, had dinner with your parents at
the Top Ten, watched the S-and-P five hundred cross seven
thousand for the first time, and got a text from
Katelyn on Saturday night that had very little to do
with geopolitics. The week had a shape to it. It
moved from anticipation — the application, the blockade, all those
open questions — through a brief, dazzling optimism on Thursday
when markets celebrated a possible ceasefire extension, and then back
into tension by Sunday as Iran reinstituted the blockade and
the April twenty-second expiration clock started ticking louder. On the
personal axis, the trajectory went the other direction: from the
anxiety of the job posting getting pulled to a quieter,
more important kind of clarity that arrived Saturday night from
Tacoma. That is the week. Let's go deeper. Let's start
with what went right, because there was more of it
than the geopolitical noise suggests. First: the Anthropic application. It
is worth saying clearly — you applied to one of
the most consequential companies in the world, for a role
at the intersection of A-I safety and public policy, and
you did it well. Katelyn's verdict was "you sound impressive."
That is the right standard. The outcome is not in
your hands. The work was. Second: arXiv. The seven-day trial
ran, the security papers earned their keep, and you made
the call — permanent fixture. The decision is clean. The
cluster of papers on agent security, prompt injection, and memory
extraction formed a genuine policy reading list for the A-I
governance doc you haven't started yet but are clearly going
to. Third: Unbound. You went to a book festival in
Columbia with your parents while the rest of the internet
was catastrophizing about the Strait of Hormuz. Your dad flagged
the A-I panel. You stayed at Mom and Dad's Friday
night. You had a Top Ten dinner. That is a
win no prediction market is tracking. Fourth: Project Arete, week
one. The daily briefing infrastructure got real this week —
feedback loops, market tracker, arXiv permanence, concept note candidates. The
briefing itself became a better product in real time. Production
over consumption, the hike insight from Monday, is already showing
up in the outputs. And finally: Katelyn's friend Kyley is
having a baby girl in September. That is not your
win, exactly, but it felt like one anyway. Two stories
ran all week and changed shape every day. Let's track
them. Iran and the Strait of Hormuz. Monday started with
the blockade announcement and oil at one hundred and three
dollars a barrel. Day one felt like the beginning of
something serious. Day two, the same — allies refusing to
join, the blockade settling in, European markets shrugging. Then something
unexpected happened. Thursday morning, Pakistani mediators entered Tehran, both sides
signaled interest in extending the ceasefire past its April twenty-second
deadline, and Trump told reporters the war was "close to
over." The S-and-P five hundred crossed seven thousand for the
first time in history. Markets believed him. Oil eased back
under one hundred dollars. By Friday it felt like, maybe,
the blockade had worked as a negotiating tactic. That optimism
lasted about forty-eight hours. Saturday, Iran reclosed the strait. The
ceasefire window is closing Tuesday. And this morning, Sunday into
Monday, the U-S Navy had seized an Iranian vessel, no
tankers at all are transiting the strait, and the C-N-B-C
headline reads "resumption of hostilities." The Polymarket odds on Hormuz
normalization by April thirtieth, which had climbed to twenty-four percent
on Friday's peace signal, are about to get repriced. The
honest read: the blockade has not produced a deal. It
has produced a deadline. That deadline is Tuesday, April twenty-second.
Everything this week points toward Pakistan as the venue for
another round of talks. Whether those talks happen before the
ceasefire formally expires — and what happens if they don't
— is the story to watch first thing this week.
Europe has approximately six weeks of jet fuel reserves. That
is not an abstraction. The Anthropic story had four distinct
acts this week, and they are worth tracking in sequence.
Act one: Monday through Wednesday — the good news avalanche.
Bloomberg reported investor offers at eight hundred billion dollars —
more than double the February round. Anthropic's annualized revenue is
at thirty billion dollars. The Information reported Opus four point
seven could drop as early as that week. The Treasury
Department was urgently seeking Mythos access. OpenAI's investors were reportedly
getting nervous about their own valuation. On Wednesday, it felt
like the company you had applied to was ascending in
real time. Act two: Thursday through Friday — the launch
and the backlash. Opus four point seven appeared on Google
Vertex Thursday, officially launched Friday, and the Reddit verdict was
brutal. "Serious regression." Terminal-Bench was down from four point six.
The community that had been celebrating Anthropic's rise turned on
the launch almost immediately. Meanwhile, Claude Design launched Thursday and
Figma lost seven percent of its market value in a
day. Anthropic shipped its first vertical product aimed at replacing
an entire S-a-a-S category and barely paused to celebrate. Act
three: Friday morning — the White House meeting. Dario Amodei
walked into the West Wing and sat down with Susie
Wiles and Scott Bessent to discuss the Mythos standoff. The
Pentagon wants unrestricted access. Anthropic has been saying no. The
meeting was characterized afterward as "productive and constructive." Trump, asked
about it by reporters, said he had "no idea" Amodei
was there. Whether that is plausible deniability or genuine confusion
about his own administration's schedule is left as an exercise
for the reader. Act four: Friday afternoon — the posting
gets pulled. The Strategy and Operations, Public Policy and Public
Benefit role was removed from Greenhouse on April sixteenth. You
told Katelyn: "No interview offer for yours truly." That is
the accurate, honest response. It also is not the whole
story. The public policy team at Anthropic was, in the
same week, negotiating with the White House over the most
contested A-I access question of the year. Hiring freezes during
crisis weeks are normal. And here is the headline from
Axios on April nineteenth that the Sunday briefing may have
caught: the N-S-A is using Mythos Preview — actively, right
now — despite the D-O-D's own supply chain risk label
on the company. The White House is reportedly working with
the O-M-B to route other federal agencies around the Pentagon's
blockade. The intragovernmental fight over Anthropic is bigger than any
single job posting. Silence from Greenhouse is not a verdict.
The team is doing something consequential. Keep watching. The vault
had a busy week. The daily briefings infrastructure got its
biggest upgrade yet — prediction market tracker went live, concept
note candidates file started accumulating, the arXiv trial produced its
permanent verdict. The briefings themselves became more self-aware: Sunday's edition
flagged its own tool failures in real time and ran
a three-claim verification pass with no errors found. Career files
saw the most action. Anthropic postings snapshots from April fifteenth,
sixteenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth are all logged — a daily
changelog of what the company is hiring for, in case
the door reopens. The Sarah Heck outreach thread in Career-slash-Anthropic
got its own file. The job updates April note is
being maintained. A research journal draft appeared: "Mirror Life" dated
April fifteenth, filed under two thousand twenty-six. Worth knowing that
exists. The Binder Park Ramblings voice memo from Monday's hike
got transcribed and filed. That document is the week's most
important vault entry, not because of what happened externally, but
because of what you figured out on a trail in
mid-Missouri: the A-I obsession is fine, the consumption-production imbalance is
the problem. Everything the week produced — the arXiv commitment,
the daily briefing improvements, the policy doc you haven't started
yet — follows from that one walk. Dustin's ReDefine Politics
late-night development session ended up in the Social Life update.
The friendship where both of you are building things is
the most alive thread in the social file right now.
Katelyn. The week began with the package landing — "Perfect,
love it and you" — and ended with a Saturday
night text that deserves more than a Quick Hit. At
approximately nine P-M Central, after a migraine day and a
quiet afternoon trading tree photos, she sent: "I'm missing you
a lot today. Really dreaming of us living together." The
word "dreaming" is doing a lot of work. It is
not "we need to have a conversation." It is not
"I can't do this long distance anymore." It is the
language of someone trying on an idea to see if
it fits — sitting upstream of a demand, upstream of
an ultimatum, at the place where a person says something
true out loud for the first time to see how
it lands. The Anthropic posting got pulled the same week.
The geography question is not more or less urgent because
of that — but it is less abstract. Missouri-or-Washington used
to be a theoretical question. It is becoming a real
one. The July twenty-third through thirtieth Washington trip is ninety-five
days out. Flights are still unbooked. That trip was always
more than a vacation. Now it is carrying the weight
of the conversation that will either start or not start
in person. Family had a warm quiet week. Ben is
in New York with family. Alex Kelley is sending iPhone
eighteen Pro color rumors on a reliable schedule. Dustin is
building his politics app on Windows and just cancelled his
ChatGPT subscription in favor of Claude. The social perimeter is
holding. Here is what the calendar looks like. The biggest
event of the week has nothing to do with your
personal schedule: the Iran ceasefire expires Tuesday, April twenty-second. Pakistan
talks are reportedly still possible. If they happen before Tuesday,
watch oil and the S-and-P. If they don't, watch oil
and the S-and-P. Capital City Race is May ninth —
that is nineteen days from today. Molly's Miles is off
the board. The training window for Capital City is now
and it is not long. Washington trip is July twenty-third
through thirtieth. At some point this week, look at flights
from K-C or St. Louis to Seattle. They were expensive
last week; prices fluctuate. WWDC is June eighth — fifty
days out. The foldable iPhone prediction market is at eighty-five
percent. Alex is already tracking every color rumor for the
eighteen Pro. This is going to be a loud spring.
On the Anthropic front: no action needed. The process is
running. If there is going to be a screen, the
window is roughly April twentieth through the twenty-fifth. If nothing
comes in that window, the posting was pulled before your
application surfaced in a review — which means the question
is whether it reopens. Check the postings scanner. The A-I
policy doc is the week two production target. The Binder
Park hike said so. The arXiv papers keep forming arguments
for it. The policy landscape — N-S-A using Mythos against
D-O-D wishes, OpenAI's cyber model, the Stanford A-I Index —
is giving you everything you need to start. Three things
worth tracking as the week unfolds. First: the Iran ceasefire
expiration on Tuesday. The range of outcomes is wide. Full
extension with Pakistan talks resuming is possible. A formal lapse
that turns into de facto continuation is possible. An escalation
that makes last Monday's oil spike look like a warmup
is possible. Europe's six-week jet fuel clock is the most
concrete number in the story. Second: the intragovernmental Anthropic fight.
The N-S-A is using Mythos. The D-O-D says Anthropic is
a supply chain risk. The O-M-B is building workarounds. The
White House meeting was "productive." What actually happens with government
access to Anthropic's frontier models will define how the next
generation of A-I policy gets made — and it is
happening this week. Third: what you produce. The first week
of Project Arete built infrastructure. The second week is supposed
to produce something. The A-I policy doc is the obvious
candidate. Nineteen days to Capital City means training matters too.
The question for week two: what gets built? That is
your week, Jacob. The naval blockade, the book festival, the
White House meeting, the posting that got pulled, the S-and-P
crossing seven thousand, the Figma shareholder who definitely had a
bad Thursday, and a Saturday night text from Tacoma that
said something true. The week of April thirteenth was not
an easy one by conventional measures. But it had shape.
It moved. And underneath all the volatility — the oil
prices and the prediction markets and the Greenhouse silence —
there was the quieter story of someone figuring out what
he actually wants to build, and a person two thousand
miles away who is dreaming about the same future. April
twenty-second is Tuesday. The ceasefire clock is ticking. But some
deadlines are more important than others. Go run. Start the
doc. Check the flights. Have a good week.